# CEIT

Package for Electric Impedance Tomography on detecting Capacitance Density

## Overview

This package is specifically designed to solve the tomographic problem concerned with detecting proximity map by a planar conductive sensor.
For more information, please check my paper.

CEIT provides the ability to generate solver for realtime reconstruction.
Given the meshes and electrode positions, CEIT can generate Inverse model for any planar sensor design.

##Requirements

See `requirements.txt`, one thing to mention is that to accelerate the calculation process, we used GPU acceleration for matrix multiplication.
So if you don't have a beefy GPU, then please set the device option in `config.json` to `"cpu"` and do the following things:
> 1. You sure cannot install `cupy` without CUDA, remove it from the `requirements.txt`.
> 2. comment out content inside function `calculate_FEM_equation()` at the end of file `./MyEIT/efem.py`.
> 3. Add a line `pass` to the function.
> 4. comment out `import cupy as cp` in `./MyEIT/efem.py`.

## Configure the calculation

You should configure the `config.json` file before using this package.

A `.fem` file is needed for initializing the whole process. You can get one by using CAD software.

Also, you have to decide your electrode center positions, and your radius of the electrode.
Inside this package, the electrode is square shaped for which the radius means **half width** of the square.

```json
{
    "mesh_filename": "EITmesh.fem",
    "optimize_node_num": false,
    "shuffle_element": false,
    "electrode_centers": [
        [47,0],[47,23.5],[47,47],
        [23.5,47],[0,47],[-23.5,47],[-47,47],
        [-47,23.5],[-47,0],[-47,-23.5],[-47,-47],
        [-23.5,-47],[0,-47],[23.5,-47],[47,-47],
        [47,-23.5]
    ],
    "electrode_radius": 3,
    "reconstruction_mode": "n",
    "capacitance_change_for_JAC": 1e-3,
    "overall_origin_capacitance": 0,
    "detection_bound": 45,
    "Is_first_JAC_calculation": true,
    "folder_name": "Mesh_50_50", 
    "calc_from": 0,
    "calc_end": 16,
    "regularization_coeff": 295,
    "device": "gpu"
}
```

## Quick Start

Here is a sample for simple forward calculation using this package.

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from MyEIT.efem import EFEM
from MyEIT.readmesh import read_mesh_from_csv_SI

""" Read mesh from csv files(after initialization) """

read_mesh = read_mesh_from_csv_SI()
mesh_obj, electrode_num, electrode_centers, radius = read_mesh.return_mesh()

""" problem setup """

fwd = EFEM(mesh_obj, electrode_num, electrode_centers, radius, perm=1 / 200000)
fwd.change_add_capa_geometry([-0.02, -0.01], 0.01, 1e-7, 'square')
node_u, elem_u, electrode_potential = fwd.calculation(2)

print(electrode_potential)

""" Visualization """

fig, ax = plt.subplots(figsize=(3.2, 3.2))
im = fwd.plot_potential_map(ax)
plt.colorbar(im)
plt.show()
```

## Read Mesh Class

All the mesh initializer is put in `MyEIT.readmesh`.

Now the reader only work with `.fem` files generated by Altair HyperMesh

### 1. Initialize a new mesh
First you should finish configuring your `config.json` file according to the previous paragraph.

Then on the first time running of a new mesh, call `init_mesh()` function to initialize mesh.

When initializing, the class will automatically clear out duplicated mesh and you can decide whether it 
should shuffle the mesh number or not.

After initializing, in the folder you specified before, the method would generate a `Mesh_Cache_Node.csv` 
file and a `Mesh_Cache_Element.csv` file.

```python
from MyEIT.readmesh import init_mesh

init_mesh(draw=True)
```

### 2. Read from generated mesh cache

After initializing the mesh, you can quickly read from the cache file.

There are two options regarding the length unit.

`read_mesh_from_csv_SI` is in **mm** unit and `read_mesh_from_csv` is in **SI** unit.
The default calculation unit inside CEIT is **SI** units, if your mesh is in **mm** unit, call `read_mesh_from_csv_SI` to read the mesh into SI unit.

You need to call `return_mesh` method to get the mesh object and electrode information.

```python
from MyEIT.readmesh import read_mesh_from_csv_SI

read_mesh = read_mesh_from_csv_SI()
mesh_obj, electrode_num, electrode_centers, radius = read_mesh.return_mesh()
```

## Forward Calculator

## Jacobian Constructor

## Realtime Solver
